Update dev docs (#3129)
SonarSource/SonarJS: docs/DEV.md

You can review the Ruling difference by running `diff -rq src/test/expected/js target/actual/js` from `its/ruling`.

To review the Ruling difference in SonarQube UI, put the breakpoint on `assertThat(...)` in `{JavaScript/CSS}RulingTest.java` and open in the browser the orchestrated local SonarQube. 
Note that you can fix the port in `orchestrator.properties files`, e.g. `orchestrator.container.port=9100`.

## Adding a rule

### Rule Description
1. Create a PR with a rule description in RSPEC repo like described [here](https://github.com/SonarSource/rspec#create-or-modify-a-rule)
2. Link this RSPEC PR to the implementation issue in this repo
5. Make sure the implementation issue title contains the RSPEC number and name

### Implementing a rule
1. Generate rule metadata (JSON and HTML files) from [RSPEC](https://github.com/SonarSource/rspec#4-implement-the-rule) by running this command from the project's root:

```sh
java -jar <location of rule-api jar> generate -rule S1234 [-branch <RSPEC branch>]
```

2. Generate other files required for a new rule (use existing <ESLint-style rulekey> if the rule is already covered by ESLint or its plugins)
```sh
cd eslint-bridge

> npm run new-rule S1234 <ESLint-style rulekey>

Author: @vilchik-elena Thanks a lot for your input on the docs! I didn’t mention the `new-rule` script as I did not manage to make it work. Did you?
Anyways, I believe it is a good idea to fix it because the first steps are very error-prone when done by hand.:
```
- generates a Java class for the rule NoInvalidSomethingCheck.java
- generates a no-invalid-something.ts file for the rule implementation
- updates the main.ts file to include the new rule
- updates the CheckList.java to include the new rule
```

Reviewer: I didn't try for a while tbh, but indeed, let's fix it if it's not working

Author: I fixed it here, but I can rebase these commits elsewhere if you prefer.

// e.g.
npm run new-rule S1234 no-invalid-something
```
This script:
* generates a Java class for the rule `NoInvalidSomethingCheck.java`
* generates a `no-invalid-something.ts` file for the rule implementation
* updates the `main.ts` file to include the new rule
* updates the `CheckList.java` to include the new rule

3. Update generated files
   * Make sure annotations in the Java class specify languages to cover (`@JavaScriptRule` and/or `@TypeScriptRule`)
   * If required, override the `configurations()` method of the Java CheckList class
   * If writing a rule for the test files, replace `implements EslintBasedCheck` with `extends TestFileCheck` in the Java class

>    * If adding a rule that is already covered by ESLint or its plugins, remove the `no-invalid-something.ts` rule file and undo the change in `main.ts`

Author: This could be an option for the `new-rule script`, like: `npm run new-rule S1234 -eslint`

This test gives you the opportunity to examine the issues created by each rule and make sure they're what you expect. You can inspect new/lost issues checking SonarQube UI (use DEBUG mode and put a breakpoint on assertion) at the end of analysis. If everything looks good to you, you can copy the file with the actual issues located at
```
its/ruling/target/actual/
``` 
into the directory with the expected issues
```
its/ruling/src/test/resources/expected/
```

## Adding a rule

> ### Card stuff

Reviewer: This is team-specific processes, this is not the right place to store such info as this file is also a reference for the external contributors. I would put in on Xtranet instead.

> 1. On [Kanban](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarJS/projects/3), move card from "To do" to "In progress", The issue should be assigned to you automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On [Kanban](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarJS/projects/3), move card from "To do" to "In progress". The issue should be assigned to you automatically
```

> 2. Comment on the issue linking to the [Rspec PR](https://github.com/SonarSource/rspec/pulls) if exists 

Reviewer: We spell RSPEC all upper case

3. Rename issue to match Rspec name
4. Checkout new branch named `issue-1234`

### Implementing a rule

> Load the files from [Rspec](https://github.com/SonarSource/rspec#4-implement-the-rule) by running this command from the project's root:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate rule metadata (JSON and HTML files) from [RSPEC](https://github.com/SonarSource/rspec#4-implement-the-rule) by running this command from the project's root:
```

```sh
java -jar <location of rule-api jar> generate -rule S1234 [-branch <RSPEC branch>]
```

> When naming your rule, avoid using "No" at the beginning as it is implicit.

Reviewer: I don't get this line, I think we are often using `No`. Also what do you mean here with rule name?

Reviewer: @ilia-kebets-sonarsource fyi I drop this line

> 1. Create Java class (as above) in `javascript-checks/src/main/java/org/sonar/javascript/checks/YourRuleCheck.java`

Reviewer: `as above`?

   1. Add `@JavaScriptRule` and/or `@TypeScriptRule`
   2. Add rule id as `@Rule(key="S1234")`
   3. If writing a rule for test files, use `extends TestFileCheck` otherwise, use `implements EslintBasedCheck`
   4. have *at minimum* single method `public String eslintKey()` that does `return "your-rule"`

>       1. If reusing ESlint implementation, the returned id must correspond to one in https://typescript-eslint.io/rules/

Reviewer: TBH I don't think we need this detail of instructions

2. Add your rule in `javascript-checks/src/main/java/org/sonar/javascript/checks/CheckList.java` as `YourRuleCheck.class`
3. In the generated metadata JSON file `javascript-checks/src/main/resources/org/sonar/l10n/javascript/rules/javascript/S1234.json`, add (one or both):
      ```json
       "compatibleLanguages": [
         "JAVASCRIPT",
         "TYPESCRIPT"
       ]
      ```

> 4. (Reusing ESlint only) See [Reusing ESlint rule](#reusing-rule-from-eslint).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. When using external rule implementation (e.g. ESLint core rule) check instruction [here](#reusing-rule-from-eslint).
```

> 5. (from scratch only) in `eslint-bridge/src/rules/main.ts`, add your rule import like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. For the rule implemented in SonarJS add it to the module `eslint-bridge/src/rules/main.ts`
```

>    1. `import { rule as yourRule } from './your-rule';`
>    2. `ruleModules['your-rule'] = yourRule;`

Reviewer: IMHO it's clear what to do when you open the file
```suggestion
```

6. (from scratch only) Implement rule in `eslint-bridge/src/rules/your-rule.ts`

>    1. Write up your coding examples into [AST explorer](https://astexplorer.net/). You should use the `regexpp` parser when implementing a Regex rule.

Reviewer: This is a nice tool to help us explore the tree. But it's not a necessary step to implement the rule. I would move it somewhere.

   1. Ref.: [RuleTester](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/nodejs-api#ruletester)
   2. We use the ESlint rule tester for quickfixes, as our comment-based one does not support them yet.
   3. We don't support quickfixes for Regex
9. You will need to verify how your new rule will behave by running it on "rulings" which are a subset of [Peach](https://xtranet-sonarsource.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/LANG/pages/271352055/Peach+management). See [Rulings](#rulings).
10.  You might want to checkout how your rule runs on Peach, see [release on Peach](#release-on-peach).
11. When you have opened a PR and pushed some data, if the project builds, you will get an automatic analysis on Next, Fix eventual smells and push the coverage to 100%

#### Comment-based testing

These tests are located in `eslint-bridge/tests/rules/fixtures/`, they follow the following structure:

```javascript
some clean code
some faulty code // Noncompliant {{Expected message only required at first occurence if same}} 
//   ^^^^^^
```

The `// Noncompliant ...` comment and the one below (`// ^^^^`) are necessary, otherwise it will crash.

> We recommend using this format for verifying the analyzer flagging as it is humanly readable compared to the ESlint tester described below.

Reviewer: Could you rebase on master so that we get the changes from other PR?

### Reusing rule from ESlint

#### Verify how ESlint handles it

1. Setup a repo with dependencies [example repo](https://github.com/ilia-kebets-sonarsource/TypeScript-Node-Starter/pull/1): `typescript`, `eslint`, `@typescript-eslint/parser`, `@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin`
2. add rule to `.eslintrc` if needed
3. write example code that triggers the rule highlight

> ### Rulings
> 
> You can verify how your new rule will behave by running on "rulings" which are a subset of "peach" that are part of the SonarJS repo.
> 
> Rulings run against the latest build of your project. If you have worked in `eslint-bridge/`, you must [rebuild the project](#build-the-project-and-run-unit-tests) to apply your changes.

Reviewer: We don't use `Ruling` in plural

```suggestion
### Ruling

You can verify how your new rule will behave by running on Ruling tests. Don't forget to build the project before launching the tests to apply your recent changes.
```

#### Run them

> If you run into issues when [running them](#ruling-tests), such as `{"errors":[{"msg":"A rule with the key \u0027CommentRegexTest\u0027 already exists"}]}`, you can run the rulings separately (JS, TS, CSS) following the [View code smells in Sonarqube guide](#view-code-smells-in-sonarqube) without the breakpoints and selecting `Run test`.

Reviewer: huh? That's weird that you have to do something differently because something is not working, we should fix it.

Reviewer: I drop this part. Get back to me if you have this problem again, we investigate

> #### View code smells locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Review issues locally
```
